...possible to decentralize your warehousing of the things and still have one heck of a good library that people are satisfied with.
I think the challenge for us in this area, as in most areas of higher education next year, is going to be to emphasize the value that we get out of face-to-face contact with other people and hands-on contact with valuable cultural materials.
Some of the things we have done in the traditional university of the last 50 or 100 years, we've done face-to-face and hands-on just because there was no alternative, just because it was as cheap as anything else, so we might as well do that.
I don't think the academic lecture is a particularly efficient form of transmitting most of the kinds of education.
The academic what did you say?
The lecture.
The standing up in front of the room.
Oh, lecture.
I'm sorry.
I thought you said it sounded like collector.
Okay, yeah.
The standing up and making noise for 50 minutes doesn't seem to me to be especially effective.
I think there's a lot of more interactive ways you can deal with people.
We are challenged now to think, how can you put the material that you would otherwise have put in a lecture?
Make that material more interactively, more constantly available to your students, even if it's a lecture.
Making videos of that lecture available to them to go back to when they're studying seems to me to be a better thing than just to give the lecture and hope that three months from now they'll be able to decipher and remember enough of their own notes in order to spit something back at you.
I think the physical library is a place where
You go for an experience, you go for a particular kind of intellectual adventure, and I think you will physically, even if you got to a point where none of the books were in the building, I personally don't think that will ever happen, but even if you got to that point, I think you would still need a building to which to go for certain of your intellectual interactions with others and for access to concentrated forms of resources to staff who can help you.
who can help you work with it.
You know, the Greeks called it a museum, right?
They went there to be inspired by the muses.
Exactly.
And there's something like that that you need to do.
Another gorgeous library that I love right now, just newly built, and have you seen the Vancouver Public Library?
No, no, I've heard about it, though.
Oh, it's absolutely gorgeous.
You walk in and your mouth just drops open.
When did it open, do you know?
Oh, last year or so?
No, this is important.
You see, I'm going to have in this new book the definitive chapter on the San Francisco Public Library story.
I spent eight days out there last fall interviewing everyone, Nick Baker, the whole works.
Okay.
But I've heard Vancouver put up as, you know, well, this is the other way to do it.
Well, I'll tell you, there's two or three things about it.
It's a gorgeous building.
I mean, you just smile to look at it.
It's got huge expansion space built into it in an interesting way.
There's a second tower kind of there, which is now occupied by state and local government offices, but which is available expansion space under the same roof if they ever need it.
So it's economically feasible because it's being used as office space right now.
But on the other hand, the space is there.
They're not constrained by what they've done.
University of British Columbia in Vancouver has just built a new library building, which is way too small for their collection and is already a crisis for the new librarian.
But the other thing Vancouver Public has is it rains a lot in Vancouver.
So it's got a huge atrium indoors and outdoors.
Sounds great.
With cafes, bookshops, gift shops.
indoor-outdoor seating.
When I go to Vancouver now, there's a place down there where I... So it's like Starbucks or Barnes and Noble.
I mean, we have these accessories, library accessories.
Yeah.
The best pizza by the slice I have found in Vancouver is there.
And so when I go there now, I'm not walking around.
I go by there just to sit there, eat a slice of pizza, and look at the library.
I'm not using the library.
Yeah, but I mean, you know, the old line from the Dirty Desert, very pretty, but can they fight?
You know, how's the collection there?
Yeah.
I do not know the collection intimately, but let's put it this way.
The place is strong with people who are using it in an intensive kind of way, and it's got all kinds of positive reactions.
My point is that it's a collection.
It's a collection that can expand.
They've got electronic resources, and what I've looked at superficially looks like they've done a good job of that, but they've also thought about it.
in terms of the question of why would somebody actually come here?
What would they want to do here?
Let's give them quiet working space, let's give them access to materials, but let's also make sure that it's a place where the social part of the interaction can take place as well.
And it seems to me that what you have is what in a way we're inventing with Barnes & Noble and Borders.
Places where people go
to do some of their socializing around books.
So definitely it's... ...what we do as just sitting quietly reading the thing by ourselves.
So, you know, this whole concept of book culture is something I'm dealing with.
So really what you're seeing here is just an evolving... an evolution in book culture, apparently.
Sure.
And when I was a kid growing up in New Mexico and Texas, there weren't places...
that validated for me the experience of going and hanging around with books and being with other people who cared about books and so forth.
Kind of a dirty secret.
If we'd had good borders when I was a kid, it would have meant the world to me to have a place where you could go and spend time.
The little public libraries, which were small, struggling public libraries, were what I had done.
what meant the world to me.
But they were clearly too small, too struggling, not enough space, you know, challenged in a variety of ways.
If we can make these spaces, be they bookstores or libraries, places where people really interact with each other and stuff, we're going to be that much better off.
Now, could you briefly, could you email me a CV on yourself?
Or is it on your website?
Sure, can do.
Let me do it in two different ways, sure.
I'm making notes and I will.
I'll send you a note in... Probably got to be a couple of hours.
I've got to go... In fact, I've got to leave for Boston in half an hour, so I'm on my... I've got to be in the President's office in 10 minutes.
Okay, well, that would be great.
And then also, briefly, I have to say, I had to look really hard.
Now I can see it perfectly, but my wife had to point it out to me.
I couldn't see the lion in this.
I couldn't see the lion in that one, yes.
But I'm particularly fond of that painting for several reasons, so I'll use that one.
As compared to some other ones in which the lion is...
And then finally, I'd like to pick this up at another point.
Let me go over this tape and then let me talk to my contact at the inquiry this afternoon.
I'd love to do a story for her.
And she does a nice job.
They've done two of my stories in the last month, so I've got a good relationship there.
Sometimes it's later this morning, early afternoon, and I will send you a note with several things I've made notes of, URLs and whatnot, just to do this.
And then just very, very briefly,
The lion, why is it that libraries always have lions?
You think it's from St.
Jerome?
Oh.
This is just, I mean, why is the lion always associated with libraries?
You ask a good question.
I think that is a good hypothesis.
I think Jerome and libraries go together and so forth.
Well, Jerome is said to be the patron saint of libraries, and if that's the case... I'll tell you the books by a man named Eugene Wright called Jerome and the Renaissance.
Okay.
I'm in Boston.
Oh, I'll go get it today.
It might begin to give you an answer.
Eugene Rice, Jerome in the Renaissance.
I'll be at the Boston Athenaeum in an hour, so I'll check it out.
Well, you've got to run.
I'd like to continue this.
Do you know my book, my book, A Gentle Madness?
If not, I'd be happy to show you what I'm working on.
I saw it in the library, did not grab it, but I would adore a copy of it.
So what's the address?
Sure.
Let me add the address to my email.
Okay, that's the best way.
Good.
Okay, you've got to run, I've got to run.
Let's pick this up at another time.
Excellent.
Great pleasure.
Nice talking to you.
Thanks a lot.